## Description of the signature files in this directory.

**File** | **Description**
---|---
clamav.cedb | **ClamAV complex extended signatures.** Contains signatures adapted from some of ClamAV's former, now deprecated archive metadata signatures, as well as signatures adapted from ClamAV's container database, to work with some of the extended metadata generated by phpMussel. Generally recommended for most phpMussel setups, and has a very low false positive risk (but also doesn't contain many signatures and probably won't catch too much).
clamav.db | **ClamAV standard signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work directly with file content (i.e., with zero or limited pre-processing). Covers a wide range of formats. Has a relatively low to average false positive risk, but also contains a very large number of signatures that aren't filtered by context (e.g., the type of file being scanned, its size, its extension, its magic number, etc). Due to the large number of unfiltered signatures, performance could sometimes be significantly reduced when scanning large files. If your phpMussel setup or your website's upload facility regularly needs to process large files, and if your machine's processing capacity is limited (e.g., not much RAM available, single-thread or single-process setups, using shared hosting with specific memory caps, etc), then this particular signature file should, in most cases, be avoided. Otherwise, if your server's processing capacity is good, or if your phpMussel setup or your website's upload facility generally only needs to process small files, it would be recommended.
clamav_regex.db | **ClamAV standard regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav.fdb | **ClamAV filename signatures.** Signatures in this signature file deal solely and specifically with the names of the files being scanned (e.g., the names of uploaded files as per supplied by the client attempting the upload). It probably won't catch too much, but the memory footprint and performance cost is extremely small, it has a very low false positive risk, and could potentially reduce the memory footprint of other signature files when it catches things by making it unnecessary to scan the caught files further in some cases. Generally recommended for most phpMussel setups.
clamav.hdb | **ClamAV hash signatures.** Whenever a file is scanned by phpMussel, a hash for that file is generated, and then checked against hash signatures to match against any potential specific, already known malicious files. Almost entirely useless against more modern, polymorphic viruses and malware, but relatively useful against older, non-polymorphic viruses and malware. The memory footprint and performance cost is relatively small, and it has a very low false positive risk. Generally recommended for most phpMussel setups.
clamav.htdb | **ClamAV HTML signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work with HTML-normalised file content. If there's any possibility that HTML content could be uploaded to your website, or that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan HTML content, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_regex.htdb | **ClamAV HTML regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav.mdb | **ClamAV PE sectional signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work with the hashes that are generated by phpMussel when it scans PE files (i.e., Windows "portable executable" files), representing the various sections inside those PE files. If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan PE files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored. (Of course, in general, I would advise against allowing PE files to be uploaded to your website anyway, due to the significantly higher risk factor associated with this type of file, regardless of precautions and safeguards used).
clamav.ndb | **ClamAV normalised signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work with ANSI-normalised file content (in the context of phpMussel, "ANSI-normalised" means lowercased, and with all non-ANSI characters and all characters outside of 21-7e stripped out). Covers a wide range of formats. Has a relatively low to average false positive risk, but also contains a very large number of signatures that aren't filtered by context (e.g., the type of file being scanned, its size, its extension, its magic number, etc). Due to the large number of unfiltered signatures, performance could sometimes be significantly reduced when scanning large files. If your phpMussel setup or your website's upload facility regularly needs to process large files, and if your machine's processing capacity is limited (e.g., not much RAM available, single-thread or single-process setups, using shared hosting with specific memory caps, etc), then this particular signature file should, in most cases, be avoided. Otherwise, if your server's processing capacity is good, or if your phpMussel setup or your website's upload facility generally only needs to process small files, it would be recommended.
clamav_regex.ndb | **ClamAV normalised regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_elf.db | **ClamAV ELF signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with executable Linux files (or "ELF" files). If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan ELF files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_elf_regex.db | **ClamAV ELF regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_email.db | **ClamAV email signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with saved email files. If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan saved email files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_email_regex.db | **ClamAV email regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_exe.db | **ClamAV PE signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with portable executable files (or "PE" files; e.g., Windows EXEs, DLLs, etc). If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan PE files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored. (Of course, in general, I would advise against allowing PE files to be uploaded to your website anyway, due to the significantly higher risk factor associated with this type of file, regardless of precautions and safeguards used). Please note that this signature file contains an *very* large number of signatures, and will most certainly incur a performance cost when attempting to scan PE files (this performance cost doesn't apply to other operations or other types of files).
clamav_exe_regex.db | **ClamAV PE regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_graphics.db | **ClamAV graphics signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work with files belonging to various graphics formats. If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan images or any other type of graphics file, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_graphics_regex.db | **ClamAV graphics regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_java.db | **ClamAV Java signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with Java files. To clarify, for the benefit of those that aren't aware (and to avoid confusion): This signature file has nothing to do with JavaScript; Java and JavaScript are two completely different things. If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan Java files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_java_regex.db | **ClamAV Java regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_macho.db | **ClamAV Mach-O signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with Mach-O files. If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan Mach-O files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_macho_regex.db | **ClamAV Mach-O regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_ole.db | **ClamAV OLE signatures.** Whenever a file is scanned by phpMussel, phpMussel will attempt to detect any OLE objects contained inside the file. Signatures in this signature file work with those OLE objects. Microsoft Word documents are a good example of files that can sometimes contain OLE objects (there are numerous other types of files that can also contain OLE objects though). If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan files capable of containing OLE objects, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored. It should be noted however, that phpMussel's ability to detect OLE objects hasn't yet quite been perfected, and so there may be numerous occasions where phpMussel fails to detect the OLE objects contained in some types of files, or in files crafted in a particular way (it is planned however, to improve phpMussel's ability to detect OLE objects in the future).
clamav_ole_regex.db | **ClamAV OLE regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_pdf.db | **ClamAV PDF signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with PDF files. If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan PDF files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_pdf_regex.db | **ClamAV PDF regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).
clamav_swf.db | **ClamAV SWF signatures.** Signatures in this signature file work solely and specifically with SWF files (i.e., Shockwave/Flash files). If there's any possibility that your phpMussel setup could be used to scan SWF files, then you should, in most cases, use this signature file. If not though, it won't most likely won't be particularly useful for you and should be ignored.
clamav_swf_regex.db | **ClamAV SWF regex signatures.** Same as the above, except that the signatures in this signature file can contain regular expressions (whereas signatures from the above can't).

---


Last Updated: 20 February 2019 (2019.02.20).
